Project proposal: City Explorer

Focus: This will be a full-stack application with an even focus on both front end and back end. Front end will be used for providing an interactive user experience for discovering local events/places. Backend will be used for handling user data, authentication, and itinerary saving.

Type: Web application

Goal: The goal is to help users find events to do in their city and allow them to create personalized itineraries. Users can also invite friends to create an itinerary together. 

Users: The demographic of users will be young professionals and adults. People who are looking for experiences and events happening in their city. Or tourists visiting a new city looking for things to do.

Data: 
Yelp Fusion API for restaurants and attractions
Eventbrite API for local events
Custom API can be used to manage users, get saved itineraries, get favorites attractions/events
Google calendar API

Database schema:

User: id (UUID, primary key), username (String, Unique) , email (String, unique, required)
Event: id (UUID, primary key), user_id (UUID, foreign key to user), title (String), date (Date)
Itinerary_Items: id (UUID, primary key), itinerary_id (UUID, foreign key to itineraries), name (String), type (String), start_time (Time), notes (Text), itinerary_index (Integer)
Favorites: id (UUID, primary key) , user_id (UUID, Foreign key to user), name (id, foreign key to event)

Potential API issue:
Inconsistent data from yelp fusion API and eventbrite API
Rate limits: the number of free API calls to yelp and eventbrite API may not be enough
API endpoints might be changed in the future

App functionality
User authentication
Ability to search for events, restaurants and attractions in city
Save favorite events and build custom itinerary
Organize itinerary by time/ type
Share itinerary with friends
View saved itineraries and edit
Save itinerary to google calendar
User Flor:
User visits website
Search for places/events by category, location, or time
Sign up or log in if wanting to create itinerary or save favorites
View or organize itinerary
Share itinerary to friends to collaborate

What makes it more than a CRUD app?
The web application is more than a CRUD app as it integrates multiple APIs from different websites. It allows users to generate their own plans and invite collaborators if needed.

Stretch goals:

Google Maps integration to visualize itinerary distance
AI suggestions based on history





